 Character Index.


 Tahna.
 Origin: Greek.
 Meaning: "death".

 Tahna is the first of the eight introduced to us on the sand of the Koo'neggy'on arena in By-zantium. One of Servius's many gladiatrices, she had been taken by pirates from her hometown on the coast of Greece. She was fourteen at the time, from a family of good standing and modest means.
 As a child, she had excelled in her lessons, her exacting and analytical nature finding its true passion in arithmetica. This preternatural ability to solve problems instantly, using any means available, served her well in her role as gladiatrix, allowing her to walk victorious from eleven death matches. Over time, her ruthless calculating directness hardened into a smug, cynical outlook on life.
 In combat, she handles her xiphos with calculated dexterity, unafraid to step into close hand-to-hand bouts, prepared to fall back on her xiphidion if required. Even at a distance, she is deadly accurate with her akontia.


 To'ria.
 Origin: Iberian.
 Meaning: "conqueror".

 To'ria is the second of the eight we see, first shown to us as opponent of Tahna, set to battle to the death, before Tasset'uh intervenes. She has been under the brutal hand of Servius for longer than the others, having been taken as a small child when Roman soldiers were sent to quell unrest in her native province on the Iberian Peninsula. She remembers little more than the sound of her mother's voice being cut off mid-word, and the smoke that did not belong in that hillside village.
 Her outgoing, fun-loving nature was severely curtailed during her years at the Koo'neggy'on in By-zantium, forcing an underlying dominance to the fore. This served her well during those years, building in her a fiery spontaneity, a quick eye and a lethally fast hand.
 In combat, she will face down the toughest of enemies, her falcata leaving a trail of destruction. Through her hastiness, she is prone to put herself in harm's way, but rarely does she remain there long enough for harm to reach her. So ready is she to lead in close combat, that the spear she carries seldom serves any greater purpose than to simply be there if required.


 Tasset'uh.
 Origin: Roman.
 Meaning: "silent" or "secret".

 Tasset'uh is introduced in the Koo'neggy'on arena in By-zantium. Owned by Servius, she has been a gladiatrix there for three years, after being sold by her father to settle a debt.
 Although she was already a quiet girl by nature, the betrayal of paternal duty forced her to build an unbreakable resilience through silence. She has an unplumbed depth of emotion — a unique understanding of hardship that, though silent, does not refrain from offering her own peculiar form of compassion. She had always been steady and precise, but due to her past and her extreme self-discipline, these features have sharpened to lethality.
 Her role in combat is never on display. She is the silent steady hand holding the blade that doesn't so much appear as just suddenly exist at a throat. She acts as the silencer of the survivor, and the extractor of the hostage. Her gladius is more an extension of her presence than a weapon, when in close combat, and a handful of plumbatae carried at the belt are reserved for silencing from a distance.



 Tig'rah-ta'vaa.
 Origin: Sarmatian.
 Meaning: "with the strength of an arrow".

 We first see Tig'rah-ta'vaa as she tracks a Roman patrol on the Sarmatian steppes. Born into the Roxolani tribe, she is the sole survivor of her family, after her father and the forty men who rode with him were disarmed and killed by the Roman officers they had ridden with for the previous eleven years. The blame for a Roman raid on a village north of their territory was laid on them, and Tig'rah-ta'vaa, who had been moving herds to the east at the time, returned to a burned camp and forty unburied dead. From that time on, she had fended for herself, surviving by pillaging passing Roman patrols and supply trains.
 Her natural analytical precision served her well through those lonely years, and her patient observation allowed her to choose her battles well. This same reserved caution has made her the ideal scout for the band.
 Tig'rah-ta'vaa is often the one to open combat, precisely placing one of her trilobate arrow heads through the throat of an enemy, sending it from her composite recurve bow, and usually from concealment. When called upon to assist in close combat, she is no less adept at wielding her longsword.


 Tee'aahta.
 Origin: Dacian.
 Meaning: "daughter of the strong".

 Tee'aahta is a larger-than-life mystery, first seen openly displaying her latest victim. The mystery is her past, which she has never cared to share, and has never been asked to reveal, however, hints of it are visible in her unmitigated vendetta against the Roman surveyor — any Roman surveyor. It hints at a past that has built in her a controlled yet bitter resentment of the Roman partitioning of the Dacian territory.
 Her self-sufficiency is predominant when we are introduced to her personal campsite, where everything is arranged decisively to serve its most practical use. She wears her dominance openly, yet her natural conscientiousness leads her to seek the opinions of others before making her final decisions. This habit of leading by listening softens her otherwise superior bearing, making of her a trusted and trusting unranked commander.
 In combat, her initial role is in planning. Her direct and decisive manner ensures everyone plays their part correctly. When it comes to the battlefield, her size and her two-handed falx leave nothing standing before her. The sica sheathed at her hip is mostly there for domestic use, and rarely sees daylight when the falx is at hand.


 Tov-aeh.
 Origin: Scandinavian.
 Meaning: "beautiful thunder".

 Tov-aeh is first seen in the forest between the Iazyges pastures and the Hasdingi holdings, unbothered by an hour of being watched from the tree line. Rugii by birth, from a cold coastal homeland far to the north, she was taken by Gothic raiders and traded onward to Hasdingi hands. She allowed her captors to underestimate her until the opportunity presented itself for her to flee, and had been alone in the forest since.
 Tov-aeh's warmth and affability are her most disarming traits, inviting the band to join her on their first meeting and willingly sharing her meal. She's the first to welcome a newcomer, and the first to offer help to the wounded.
 In combat, Tov-aeh is willing to lead the strike, her raw focus and the brutality of her axe carrying the weight of her past into every battle. She discovered that revenge alone offered no relief to the pain of her past, and even her affability can be weaponised by using it as a patronising corrosion to an enemy iron soul.


 Thilda.
 Origin: Germanic.
 Meaning: "strength in battle".

 Thilda comes onto view scouting along a stretch of border, when she comes across the campfire of the band of six women. Born to a people who held relatively resource-poor ground in Upper Germania, she fought first under self-important commanders, and later alone, coming to know both Rome's patient encroachment from the south and the raiding tribes pressing down from the north. We are not told what happened to her people other than that she had buried more of her own than she could remember.
 Whatever the hardships were that she faced during her early years, they had only served to strengthen and stabilise a quiet confidence in her own ability to read the landscape. The caution first seen in her covert observation of the others around their campfire was no less present in her bold approach, after deciding they were worth investigating.
 In combat, Thilda will holds the line, her tower shield planted as solidly as herself, an immovable object against which seemingly unstoppable forces break themselves. She is unafraid to use her framea in direct attacks and will turn to the spatha when close combat requires it.


 Tahran.
 Origin: Caledonian.
 Meaning: "thunder".

 Tahran is the last of the eight, first seen while still in captivity at Fort Lorkh, standing silent by a wall as the Pryfectus displays her to visiting officers as proof of Rome's control even beyond the frontiers. Taken from Caledonia as an exotic curiosity, she has spent three years treated, in her own words, like a hound that had learned to heel. She breaks her captivity the night a frightened soldier's account of an ambush reaches the household, lifting weapons from the Pryfectus's own armoury before scaling the fort wall in the dead of night.
 From the little we are told about her life in Caledonia, we can see that her speed and dexterity was more than a match for a Roman soldier. This fiery-tempered nature never burned out during her captivity, and even the practice blades she was proffered were used to keep her skills sharp. Over the three years of captivity, she learned a unique cold patience that now acts as a faucet through which she channels her frenzy, however, it never chilled her natural warmth which resurfaces the moment she allows herself to relax into Tov-aeh's embrace.
 In combat, Tahran appears to be the embodiment of a contradiction. She has the immense patience required to be a highly skilled archer, and other times, she's a screaming banshee who drops from overhead onto five armed men with her twin sgian already flying. The tuagh she has at her belt has not yet seen action since Caledonia, but would no doubt prove as deadly in her hands as her other weapons.